GMail Papers

1. A Study of Credit Card Fraud Detection using 
Adaptive Pattern Matching with Optimize 
Itemset

Abstract: Comparison piece of two approaches. Uses Brazil data we saw before.

Conclusion: Shows how ADP-OI works well, given the imbalance problem.


Suggestion: Nothing new here, other papers I already have did a better job of comparing algotithms. Reject.



2. AN IMPLEMENTATION OF REAL AND 
ACCURATE CLOUD BASED FRAUD 
DETECTION SYSTEM BY USING DEEP AND 
MACHINE LEARNING TECHNIQUES 

Abstract: Cloud based use of NN for CC Fraud makes it seem interesting but English is terrible.

Intro: Some blurb about real time application of FCNN

Conclusion: MEtrics on experiments.


Suggestion: Hard to take anythingfro the FCNN experiments. Reject.



3. Analysis of the Effectiveness of Various Machine Learning, Artificial Neural Network 
and Deep Learning Methods in Detecting Fraudulent Credit Card Transactions

Abstract: General blurn. Another comparison paper - some 'standard' algotithms v two NN and two Deep Learning approaches.

Intro: Broade literature review of previous papers comparing ML methods for CC Fraud detection. ULB dataset

Conclusion: Experimental results showed that the 
Deep Neural Network Classifier outperformed the other algorithms used in this study.

Suggestion: Might be useful as a reference citation for performance of NN in CC Fraud. Not much else.



4. Comparative Study Using Neural Networks
Techniques for Credit Card Fraud Detection

Abstract:  In this article, we conducting a comparative study of techniques based on neural networks

Intro:  This study aims to evaluate different machine Learning techniques
with regard to their efficacy in detecting credit card fraud, over the same dataset

Conclusion: . Multilayer preceptron proved to be the best
among the others for credit card fraud detection applied to our unique and generic
dataset.

Suggestion: This is a comparison piece involving just NN approaches. Existing papers cover this already. Reject.




5. Credit Card Fraud Detection using Deep Learning 
based on Auto-Encoder and Restricted Boltzmann 
Machine

Abstract:  This paper aims to 1) focus on fraud cases that cannot 
be detected based on previous history or supervised learning,
2) create a model of deep Auto-encoder and restricted Boltzmann 
machine (RBM) that can reconstruct normal transactions to find 
anomalies from normal patterns. 

Intro: Uses ULB data. Focus is on Deep Learning and unsupervised techniques (anomaly detection), which is not the approach I am going with.

Conclusion: Benchmarked against other methods these Deep Learning approaches worked wll.

Suggestion: Maybe use this citatiron for the general risk of Fraud -  CyberSource. (2017, Nov. 29). 2017 North AMERCA edition, online 
fraud benchmark report persistence is critical [Online]. Available: 
http://www.cybersource.com/content/dam/cybersource/2017_Fraud_Ben
chmark_Report.pdf?utm_campaign=NA_17Q3_2017%20Fraud%20Rep
ort_Asset_1_All_Auto&utm_medium=email&utm_source=Eloqua 

Maybe keep this paper as an example of unsupervised learning approaches to CC Fraud.




6. Credit Card Fraud Detection using Deep 
Learning based on Neural Network and 
Auto-encoder 

Abstract:  Similar in approach to Paper 5 - blurb followed by proposal to look at unsupervised DL techniques.

Intro:  in this paper, 
Neural Network and Auto-encoder is used to detect whether 
the usual data set transaction is eligible as new fraud.

Conclusion: Comparison of two NN unsupervised approaches.

Suggestion: This might be a citation for general CC Fraud statistics; 
1. F. Carcillo, Y. A. Le Borgne, O. Caelen, Y. Kessaci, F. Oblé, and G. 
Bontempi, “Combining unsupervised and supervised learning in credit 
card fraud detection,” Inf. Sci. (Ny)., no. xxxx, 2019, doi: 
10.1016/j.ins.2019.05.042

Not a well written paper. Reject.



7. Detection of Fraud Transactions Using Recurrent 
Neural Network during COVID-19

Abstract: Covid-19 reference and.... Implementing 
and applying Recurrent Neural Network on PaySim generated synthetic 
financial dataset, deceptive transactions are identified. 

Intro: Blurb and statment about how RNN showed strong metrics.

Conclusion: Metrics but no baselinging against other methods.

Suggestion: Reject. Might be useful as a citation for the use of synthetic data.




8. Fraud detection in bank transaction
with wrapper model and Harris
water optimization-based deep
recurrent neural network

Abstract:  This paper aims to design the fraud detection mechanism using the
proposed Harris water optimization-based deep recurrent neural network (HWO-based deep RNN).

Intro:  The process includes a significant amount of feature engineering.

Conclusion: Baselined metrics against more standard approaches shows benefit of RNN approach. A little like some of my existing papers.

Suggestion: Like 7 - maybe a candidate for citation on benefit of RNN approach. Not much else.





9. Thorough Review on Online Fraud Detection using Deep Learning

Abstract:  2022 paper - this 
survey study has been proposed to achieve the effective 
analysis of the previous studies that have been performed on 
the fraudulent transaction detection. T

Intro:  This is a Literature Review.

Conclusion: This is a Literature Review, lots to absorb.

Suggestion: Short paeper - worth reading for CA2 to see if it sparks anything.






10. Towards Artificial Intelligence Enabled Financial Crime Detection

Abstract:  2021. We study and analyse the recent works done in financial crime
detection and present a novel model to detect money laundering cases with minimum human intervention needs

Intro:  As above.

Conclusion:  used supervised learning in our classification models to predict suspicious transactions by 
asking analysts to label the transactions,
 and develop algorithms that learn from this process and starting to automatically
label the data. We also applied the anomaly detection method as unsupervised learning 
to detect unusual transactions. We then combined the two methods, which resulted in more precision 
resulting in less human work

Suggestion: Too general. Reject.